Asslanment-1 A Job Ready Bootcamp in G++, DSA and 10T MysleG
Input and output in € Language

Write a program to print Mello Students on the scraen,
Write a program to print Hello in the first line and Students in the second line.
Write a program to print “MySirG” on the screen. (Remember to print in double quotes)

WAP to find the area of the circle. Take radius of circle from user as input and print the
result in below given format.
Expected output format —
“Area of circle is A having the radius R". Replace A with area
& R with radius.

WAP to calculate the length of String using printf function.

WAP to print the name of the user in double quotes.
Expected output format — “Helio . Amit Kumar"

7. WAP to print “%d” on the screen.
8. WAP to print “\n" on the screen.
9 WAP to print “\\" on the screen.

10. WAP to take date as an input in below given format and convert the date format and
display the result as given below,
User Input date format — ‘DOMMIYYYY" (27/1 1/2022)
Output format -
‘Day - DD, Month — MM Year -Yyyy" {Day — 27 Month - 07 . Year — 2022)

11. WAP to take time as an input in below given format and convert the time format and
display the result as given below,
User Input date format — “HHMM"
Output format - “1 iH hour and MM Minute”
Example -
"11:25" converted 10 “11 Hour and 25 Minute”

12. Find output of below code:
int main(){
int x= printf(“ineuron”) ;
printf(*%d" x);
return 0;}


Qperators in C Language

Write a program to print unit digit of a given number

Write a program to print a given number without its last digit.

Write a program to swap values of two int variables

Write a program to swap values of two int variables without using a third variable.
Write a program to input a three-digit number and display the sum of the digits.
Write a program which takes a character as an input and displays its ASCII code.
Write a program to find the position of first 1 in LSB, }
Write a program to check whether the given number is even or odd using a bitwise

operator,
Write a program to print size of an int, a float, a char and a double type variable

10. Write a program to make the last digit of a number stored in a variable as zero.

(Example - if x=2345 then make it x=2340)

11. Write a program to input a number from the user and also input a digit. Append a

digit in the number and print the resulting number. (Example - number=234 and
digit=9 then the resulting number is 2349)

12. Assume price of 1 USD is INR 76.23. Write a program to take the amount in INR and

convert it into USD.

13. Write a program lo take a three-digit number from the user and rotate its digits by

one position towards the right.
A

18.

Write a program to check whether a given number Is positive or non-positive.

Write a program lo check whether a given number is divisible by § or not

Write a program to check whether a given number Is an even number or an odd
number.

Write a program to check whether a given number is an even number or an odd
number withoul using % operalor.

Write a program lo check whether a given number is a three-digit number or not.
Write a program lo print greater between two numbers. Print one number of both are
the same.

Write a program lo check whether roots of a given quadratic equation are real &
distinct, real & equal or imaginary roots

Write a program (o check whether a given year is a leap year or not.

Write a program fo find the greatest among three given numbers. Print number ance
if the greatest number appears two or three times.

- Write a program which takes the cost price and selling price of a product from the

user. Now calculate and print profit or loss percentage.

- Write a program to take marks of 5 subjects from the user. Assume marks are given

out of 100 and passing marks is 33. Now display whether the candidate passed the
examination or failed.

- Write a program to check whether a given alphabet is in uppercase or lowercase.

. Write a program to check whether a given number is divisible by 3 and divisible by 2.
- Write a program to check whether a given number is divisible by 7 or divisible by 3.

. Write a program to check whether a given number is positive, negative or zero.

. Write a program ta check whether a given character is an alphabet (uppercase), an

alphabet (lower case), a digit or a special character.

. Write a program which takes the length of the sides of a triangle as an input. Display

whether the triangle is valid or not.
Write a program which takes the month number as an input and display number of
days in that month
Assignment - 4 A Job Ready Bootcamp In C++, DSA and 10T MySIrG

Iterative Control Statements

Write a program to print MySirG 5 times on the screen

Write a program to print the first 10 natural numbers.

Write a program to print the first 10 natural numbers in reverse order
Write a program to print the first 10 odd natural numbers

Write a program to print the first 10 odd natural numbers in reverse order.
Write a program to print the first 10 even natural numbers

Write a program to print the first 10 even natural numbers in reverse order
Write a program to print squares of the first 10 natural numbers

Write a program to print cubes of the first 10 natural numbers

10. Write a program lo print a table of 5.

O®ND OB WN
Assignment - § A Job Roady Bootcamp In C++, DSA and 10T MySirG

More on Iterative Control Statements

. Write a program lo print MySirG N times on the screen

. Write a program lo print the first N natural numbers.

. Write a program lo print the first N natural numbers in reverse order

. Write a program to print the first N odd natural numbers

. Write a program to print the first N odd natural numbers in reverse order.
. Write a program to print the first N even natural numbers

. Write a program to print the first N even natural numbers in reverse order
. Write a program to print squares of the first N natural numbers

. Write a program to print cubes of the first N natural numbers

Write a program to print a table of N.
Write a program to calculate sum of first N natural numbers

Write a program to calculate sum of first N even natural numbers
Write a program to calculate sum of first N odd natural numbers

Write a program to calculate sum of squares of first N natural numbers
Write a program to calculate sum of cubes of first N natural numbers
Write a program to calculate factorial of a number

Write a program to count digits in a given number

Write a program to check whether a given number is a Prime number or
not

Write a program to calculate LCM of two numbers

10. Write a program to reverse a given number

1.
2.
3.
4,
5S.
6.
7.
8.

©
Assignment -7 A Job Ready Bootcamp In C++, DSA and 10T MySIrG
|
Iterative Control Statements (Part - 2)

1. Write a program to find the Nth term of the Fibonnaci series.

2. Write a program to print first N terms of Fibonacci series’ )

3. Write a program to check whether a given number is there in the Fibonaccl
series or not.

4. Write a program to calculate HCF of two numbers

5. Write a program to check whether two given numbers are co-prime

numbers or not

Write a program to print all Prime numbers under 100

Write a program to print all Prime numbers between two given numbers

Write a program to find next Prime number of a given number

Write a program to check whether a given number is an Armstrong number

or not

10. Write a program to print all Armstrong numbers under 1000

J

© oN
Asstanment . §

ef Ast Ready Bootcama in Gov, nga gag sp Mysirg
Battorn Problomsy

Wile a program to draw Ihe following patterns

.

LEY

LR

eww

6
RC

A I DR
I
og

-

’
EE EEL

bE * AK
kk kk
x * ok

» *
Assignment - 9 A.lob Ready Bootcamp in C+, DSA ang 107 MySirG

[=]

~

10.

Switch Case Rrobloms

- Write a program which lakes th ;

~ J
¢ month number as an input i
number of days in (hat month, pean depiay

Write a menu driven pro
a. Addition
b. Subtraction
¢. Multiplication °
d. Division
e. Exi

Write a program which takes the day number of a week and displays a
unique greeting message for the day.

gram with the following oplions:
[

. Write a menu driven program with the following options:

a. Check whether a given set of three numbers are lengths of an
isosceles triangle or not

b. Check whether a given set of three numbers are lengths of sides of
aright angled triangle or not

c. Check whelher a given set of three numbers are equilateral triangle
ar not

d. Exit

- Convert the following if-else-if construct into switch case:

iffvar == 1)

System.out.printin{"good");
else iffvar == 2)

System.out. printin("better”);
else iffvar == 3)

System.out printin("bes!”);
else

System.aut. printin{ invalid”);

. Program to check whether a year is a leap year or not. Using switch

slatement

. Program to take the value from the user as input electricity unit charges

and calculate total electricily bill according lo the given condition . Using
the swilch statement

For the first 50 unils Rs. 0.50funil
For the nex! 100 units Rs. 0.75/unit
For the next 100 units Rs. 1.20/unit
For units above 250 Rs. 1.50/unit
An addiional surcharge ol 20% is added lo the bill.
Program lo convert a positive number into a negative number and negalive
number inlo a positive number using a swilch statement.
Program lo Convert even number into its upper nearest odd number
i atemenl.
om 1o find all roots of a quadralic equation using switch case
Assignment - 10

Noose w=

&@

9.

Functions In C Lanquage

Write a function 1o calculate the area of a circle, (TSRS)

Write a function to calculate simple interest. (TSRS)

Write @ function 1o check whather a give number is even or odd. Return 1 if the
number is even, otherwise return 0. (TSRS)

Write a function ta print first N natural numbers (TSRN)

Write a function to print first N odd natural numbers. (TSRN)

Write a function to calculate the factorial of a number. (TSRS)

Write a function to calculate the number of combinations one can make from n items
and 1 selected at atime. (TSRS)

Write a function to calculate the number of arrangements one can make from n items
and r selected at a time. (TSRS)

Write : function to check whether a given number contains a given digit or not.
(TSRS)

10. Write a function to print all prime factors of a given number. For example, if the

number is 36 then your result should be 2, 2, 3, 3. (TSRN)
Assignment-11 A Job Ready Bootcamp in Cs+, DSA and 10T

More on functions in C Language

Write a function to calculate LCM of two numbers. (TSRS)

Write a function to calculate HCF of two numbers. (TSRS)

Write a function to check whether a given number is Prime or net. (TSRS)

Write a tunction lo find the next prime number of a given number. (TSRS)

Write a function to print first N prime numbers (TSRN)

Write a function to print all Prime numbers between two given numbers. (TSRN)
Write a function to print first N terms of Fibonacci series (TSRN)

Write a function to print PASCAL Triangle. {TSRN) ’ J
Write a program in C to find the square of any number using the function.

. Write a program in C to find the sum of the series 1! /1+21/2+3!/3+4!/4451/5 using the
function.

2omNonsELN=

o

1. Write a recursive function to print first N natural numbers

2. Write a recursive function to print first N natural numbers in reverse order

3. Write a recursive function to print first N odd natural numbers

4. Write a recursive function to print first N odd natural dumbers in’reverse order
5. Wrile a recursive function to print first N even natural numbers

6. Write a recursive function to print first N even natural numbers in reverse order
7. Write a recursive function to print squares of first N natural numbers

8. Write a recursive function to print binary of a given decimal number

9. Write a recursive function to print octal of a given decimal number

10. Write a recursive function to print reverse of a given number
1

2
3
4.
5.
6.
7
8
9

10.

‘13 A.Job Ready Bootcamp In C++, DSA and 10T MysirG

Write a recursive function to calculate sum of first N natural numbers

Write a recursive function to calculate sym of first N odd natural numbers

Write a recursive function to calculate sum of first N odd naturalnumbers

Write a recursive function to calculate sum of squares of first n natural numbers
Write a recursive function to calculate sum of digits of a given number

Write a recursive function to calculate factorial of a given number

Write a recursive function to calculate HGF of two numbers

Write a recursive function to print first N terms of Fibonacci series

Write a program in C to count the digits of a given number using recursion.
Write a program in C to calculate the power of any number using recursion.
Array In C Language

. Write a program to calculate the sum of numbers stored In an array of size 10. Take
array values from the user.

2. Write a program lo calculate the average of numbers stored In an array of size 10,
Take array values from the user.

Write a program to calculate the sum of all even numbers and sum of all odd

numbers, which are stored in an array of size 10, Take array values from the user,
4. Write a program to find the greatest number stored in an array of size 10. Take array
values from the user.

Write a program 10 find the smallest number stored in an array of size 10. Take array
values from the user,

Write a program to sort elements of an array of size 10. Take array values from the
user,

Write a program to find second largest in an array. Take array values from the user.
8. Write a program to fi

nd the second smallest number in an array.Take array values
from the user. )
9. Write a program in C to read n number of values in an array and display it in reverse
order. Take array values from the user.

10. Write a program in C to copy the elements of one array into another array.Take amay
values from the user.
oll adi adm

oN oo ou

Array and Functions In C Language

Write a function to find the greatest number from the given array of any size. (TSRS)
Write a function to find the smallest number from the given array of any size. (TSRS)
Write a function to sort an array of any size. (TSRS) p

Write a function to rotate an array by n position in d direction. The d is an indicative
value for left or right. (For example, if array of size § is [32, 29, 40, 12, 70]; nis 2 and
dis lef, then the resulting array after left rotation 2 times is (40, 12, 70, 32, 29] )
Write a function to lind the first occurrence of adjacent duplicate values in the array.
Function has to return the value of the element,
Write a function in C to read n number of values in an array and display it in reverse
order.

Write a function in C to count a total number of duplicate elements in an array.

Write a function in C to print all unique elements in an array.

Write a function in C to merge two arrays of the same size sorted in descending
order.

10. Write a function in C to count the frequency of each element of an array.
Assignment: 16 A Job Ready Bootcamp in C++, DSA and IOT.

Multi-Dimensional Array in C Language

_ Write a program to calculate the sum of two malrices each of order 3x3.

_ Write a program to calculate the product of two matrices each of order 3x3.
_ Write a program in C to find the Iranspose of a given matrix.

_ Write a program in C to find the sum of right diagonals of a matrix.

_ Write a program in C 10 find the sum of rows and columns of a Matrix.
. Write a program in C to print or display the lower triangular of a given matrix.
. Write a program in C to print or display an upper triangular matrix.

MysirG

Write a program in C to accept a matrix and determine whether It Is a sparse matrix.

1
2
3
4
5. Writa a program in C to find tha sum of left diagonals of a matrix.
6
7
8
9
1

0. Write a program in C to find the row with maximum number of 1s.
assignment - 19 A Job Ready Bootcamp in C++, DSA and IOT.

© NOD

MySirG
Handling multiple Strings in C Language

Write a program to tind the number of vowels in each of the 5 strings stored in two
dimensional arrays, taken {rom the user.

Write a program to sort 10 city names stored in two dimensional arrays, taken from
the user.
Write a program to read and display a 2D array of strings in C language.
Write a program to search a string in the list of strings.
Suppose we have a list of email addresses, check whether all email addresses have
‘@' in it. Print the odd email oul.
Write a program to print the strings which are palindrome in the list of strings.
From the list of 1P addresses, check whether all ip addresses are valid.
Given a list of words followed by two words, the task is to find the minimum distance
between the given two words in the list of words.
(Example © s = {“the” “quick”, "brown" "fox" ,"quick}

word? = “the”, word2 = “fox”, QUTPUT : 1) )
Write a program that asks the user to enter a username. If the username entered is
one of the names in the list then the user is allowed to calculate the factorial of a
number. Otherwise, an error message is displayed

10. Create an authentication system. It should be menu driven.
ND; EWN

8.
9.

Assignment -20  A.lob Ready Bootcamp in C++, DSA and IOT  MySirG

Bolnters

Write a function lo swap values of twa in variables of calling function. (TSRS)

Write a function to swap strings of two char arrays of calling functions. (TSRS)
Write a function to sort an array of int type values. [ void sort{int *ptr,int size); ]

Write a program in C to demonstrate how to handle the pointers in the program.
Write a program to find the maximum number between two numbers using a pointer
Write a program lo calculate the length of the string using a pointer

Write a program to count the number of vowels and consonants in a string using a
pointer.

Write a program to compute the sum of all elements in an array using pointers.
Write a program fo print the elements of an array in reverse order.

10. Write a program 1o print a string in reverse using a pointer
No

230 ®~

Assignment 21 A Job Ready Bootcamp In G++, DSA and 10T MySIrG

Structure

Define a structure Employee with member variables id, name, salary

. Write a function to take input employee data from the user. [ Refer structure from

question 1)

Write a function to display employee data. [ Refer structure from question 1]

Write a function to find the highest salary employee from a given array of 10
employees. [| Refer structure from question 1)

Write a function to sort employees according to their salaries [ refer structure from
question 1]

Wiite a function to sort employees according to their names [refer structure from
question 1]

Write a program to calculate the difference between two time periods.

Write a program to store information of 10 students and display them using structure.
Write a program to store information of n students and display them using structure

. Write a program to enter the marks of 5 students in Chemistry, Mathematics and

Physics (each out of 100) using a structure named Marks having elements roll no.,
name, chem_marks, maths_marks and phy_marks and then display the percentage
of each student.
© ®No

10.

Assignment -22 ~~ A.Job Ready Bootcamp In C++, DSA and OT  MySirG
DMA

Define a function lo input variable length string and store it in an array without
memory wastage.
Write a program to ask the user to input a number of dala values he would like to

enter then create an array dynamically to accommodate the data values. Now take

the input from the user and display the average of data values.
Write a program to calculate the sum of n numbers entered by the user using malloc

and free.
Write a program to input and print text usi

Write a program to read a one dimensional
inputted array elements using dynamic memory allocation.
Write a program in C to find the largest element using Dynamic
Write a program to demonstrate memory leak in C.

Write a program to demonstrate dangling pointers in C.

Write a program to allocate memory dynamically of the size in bytes entered by the
user. Also handle the case when memory allocation is failed.

Find out the maximum and minimum from an array using dynamic

inC.

ng dynamic memory allocation.
| array, print sum of all elements along with

Memory Allocation.

memory allocation
